[THEME MUSIC]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
Sperry, welcome.
We are happy to
have you on my show.
And I see you is a very
integral piece of the puzzle.
We are confronting the idea of a
government that is actually not
working in our best
interest, to put it mildly.
What is your perspective on the
situation that we're seeing now
with this shadowy
government that's
in place and the things
that are happening there?
How do you see that?
>>SPERRY ANDREWS: Well, I think
a positive way of looking at it
is that we individually have
been ruled in the same way
by our so-called conscious mind,
which comprises only about 3%
to 5% of our moment-to-moment
neurophysiological psychology.
And that has enslaved or
dominated or controlled
the other 95% of us,
which we in science
call the cognitive
unconscious, which
is about 4,000 billion bits
of information per second,
compared to the
so-called conscious mind
that some say is about 2000
bits of information per second.
So as we wake up, and as
the universe expands--
and all life does this.
Plants, even, will
metabolize its environment
through paying
attention biologically
and bring in the energy and
information in the environment
and build the plant or the
human being from a baby
until an adult or a society from
a tribe to seven billion people
on the planet.
And so if we look at
it in a holistic way,
as you suggested, as
a hologram, and where
every point in a hologram is
mapped to every other point,
it's really an
indivisible geometry.
So there's an instantaneous
rapport between all the parts.
But in the evolution of the
so-called conscious mind
and this ability to
conceptualize what we've
been experiencing as
reptiles and as mammals,
as a sensory motor reptilian
brain and the limbic system,
which is the mammalian brain,
which is more concerned
with emotion, the
development of the neocortex,
by some estimates, has
ballooned in size five times
in the last 40,000 years.
And so it's like
an ostrich egg kind
of laid inside of our
heads, each of our heads.
And we call that the neocortex,
the new part of our brain.
And it's trying to make a
conceptual map of everything
and it really behaves like a
child, asking mother and father
like, what's this mommy?
What's that, Daddy?
And it's just
constantly nagging at us
to try to create a
conceptual equivalent of what
we've been sensing and feeling.
And so when that happens
at a global scale,
the same thing's happening
in us as individuals.
We're been developing
this conceptual mind
that is trying to control--
like a child tries to
control their parents.
There's a power struggle there.
And so there's
resistance on the part
of the parents, which in this
case are the 99%, if you will.
And the global elite
are really attempting
to be this very sort of
disconnected, uneducated, very
control-fixated, very
secure sector of society
that are grasping at control
over the greater body, heart,
and mind of the Earth.
>>DAVID: Well, that's
an interesting angle.
You're suggesting, if I
think I heard you correctly,
that the 99%, the
bulk of humanity
is actually the parents because
we elect these people to be
our leaders, quote unquote,
and that in a sense
the leaders are behaving
like the children,
though we wouldn't normally
think of it that way.
Is that your hypothesis?
>>ANDREWS: Yes.
The leaders are perhaps the
most psychotic or sociopathic,
the most cut off from the
greater body, heart, and mind,
in the same way that our
so-called conscious mind gets
us in a lot of trouble.
Who we think we are, what
we think we're doing often
gets us into this
state where we feel
like we're at a dead end
alley, which is how humanity
is kind of stuck right now.
We have to kind of wake up
and give equal attention
to this more ancient
aspect of our sensory motor
and emotional system.
And we need to do that
together, not just individually.
We need to do it as a
society, as a species.
And the global leader are more
in that controlling position,
trying to hang on to
who they think they are
and what they think
they're doing,
and what they want us to
do, just in the same way
that our so-called conscious
mind has been trying to control
us individually, like our
egos, for example, to get us
to be a certain person and play
a certain role, which often
is really just an ego trip.
>>DAVID: The model
that you're presenting
would be a holographic view
of what we see collectively
on Earth as a mirror projection
of a psychodynamic issue
within each individual, in which
the power elite would represent
the ego and the conscious mind,
in a sense, the part of us that
tries to dominate the flow
of energy and thought.
>>ANDREWS: The collective,
the 99% of humanity,
has this tremendous potential
in the so-called conscious mind.
The power elite, in this case,
is terrified of just waking up.
>>DAVID: Right.
>>ANDREWS: But we've been
dominating and enslaving
our bodies and utilizing
them for whatever
we want to do with them,
fulfilling our desires
and avoiding threats
and pain as creatures.
And we've been doing that on a
social scale through creating
peace through war, and very
conflict-laden, contentious way
of being.
And so once we wake
up, we're actually
noticing more every moment.
Even plants grow
by noticing more
per unit area of space
time, where actually
the whole universe
is expanding because
at the quantum mechanical
level, space-time
is actually part
of the architecture
of universal consciousness.
And it is uniting the
universe over and over again.
And every moment
it's reuniting it,
it's expanding and
creating the complexity
that we're experiencing.
So in a sense we actually feel
that we're never the same way
twice.
We're total strangers to
ourselves every moment.
And so that's sort
of scary unless we're
aware of this unchangeless
awareness which is imageless.
And that's what meditation
and the ancient arts
of conscious awareness that
come to us from the East,
largely, is about,
is becoming aware
of that which in
us does not suffer
and is never divided by
space or time or personality.
>>DAVID: What do you
think consciousness is?
>>ANDREWS: Well,
to reflect on some
of the foremost neuroscientists,
people like Eben Alexander
or Jill Bolte Taylor, who is
one of the most popular videos
on the Ted Talks online.
They've had this experience of
either a near-death experience
or a collapse of
their left brain,
where their verbal analytic
brain couldn't process and chop
everything up and label it,
and have a direct, seamless,
non-linear experience
of existence,
and been in this blissful
state of either being--
as with Eben
Alexander, this sense
of just having
total connectedness,
and experience throughout
all of their life
coming together
as a single whole,
and completely being enlightened
to who and what they are.
>>DAVID: This is while
they're allegedly
dead in a clinical sense.
>>ANDREWS: Yeah, exactly.
>>DAVID: They have no
respiration, no heart rate,
and no brainwaves.
>>ANDREWS: Well, there's some
very strictly satisfying cases
in which people were being
monitored that were--
actually, their body
was frozen, virtually,
so that there was no possibility
of any brain activity.
And their brain was
being operated on,
so it had to be flat-lining.
And that's when
they had the most
activity of these out-of-body
full cognitive experiences.
So over and over again now,
for the last 20, 30 years,
the evidence is
outstanding that the brain
doesn't have to be
active for there
to be consciousness, self-aware
consciousness beyond the brain.
And people go out
of their bodies,
they go up through several
floors in a hospital,
they can see-- this one woman
saw a red sneaker on the roof
and was able to report that,
able to hear what people were
talking about down the hallway
and be able to repeat it back
with tremendous accuracy.
The doctors are aghast at the
clarity with which this person
was able to know what was going
on when they were supposedly
dead or completely unconscious.
>>DAVID: How often are
these near death experiences
happening?
Is this actually just
a statistical anomaly,
or is it something
that is standardizable
across a large body of data?
>>ANDREWS: Well,
since it really became
a subject of scientific
investigation decades ago,
starting really with Raymond
Moody and Kenneth Ring,
there have been literally
reported tens of millions
of near-death experiences.
>>DAVID: Tens of millions?
>>ANDREWS: Yes.
It's really that prevalent.
>>DAVID: I didn't know that.
>>ANDREWS: Yeah.
And so then a certain
percentage of those people
have full recall of that.
It's a little bit like
Abraham Maslow's work, where
he thought that he would,
in researching these higher
optimum states of flow and
transcendent consciousness,
that maybe 5% of
the population would
have had these experiences.
But when he started
studying people--
and he's passed now, his
whole life was doing this--
he found that 100% of people
had had these experience of what
he called peak
experiences, where
they transcended
their separateness
and experienced
this indivisibility
with the whole of nature.
>>DAVID: Now this
is the Maslow who--
like I had psychology
bachelor's degree in college--
so he's talking about a pyramid
of needs, a hierarchy of needs.
We have needs for
food and shelter.
love and nurturance.
But then the highest
level of Maslow's pyramid
was what he called
self-realization.
And he said that that was where
we feel a greater transpersonal
identity supersedes
this physical self
and is a greater
connectedness to the universe.
>>ANDREWS: Yes.
>>DAVID: Now you're saying
that Maslow was only
expecting that a small
percentage of the population
would actually experience that?
>>ANDREWS: That's right.
>>DAVID: And it wasn't that way.
What did he actually find?
>>ANDREWS: Well, he
found that it was--
100% of people have had this
transcendent experience.
>>DAVID: 100%.
100% as far as he could
tell, but only maybe 20%
of those people really had
allowed themselves to be
changed by that experience.
Some of them just
wanted to shut it away
and they didn't want
to think about it.
They didn't know
what to do with it.
They didn't really
know what it meant.
And so they didn't know how to
integrate it into their lives.
And so they-- in fact,
there was a study
done with something like
over 40 cultures where
they asked people about this.
And something like, I think
it was about 68% of people,
had reported having had this
or were admitting to it.
But only 23% had ever spoken
about it to anybody else.
So there's this sense of this
tremendous innate resource
that we have to work with.
But people were embarrassed.
They don't feel--
they just feel shy.
They feel that people
will think they're
crazy to talk about this.
>>DAVID: What in
their life happened
that what you're saying is
this transpersonal awareness?
What could they identify
in their experience
that would actually have been
that event happening to them?
>>ANDREWS: You know, as children
we reach delta wave brain wave
consciousness several
times a night.
That's normal.
>>DAVID: OK.
>>ANDREWS: And in that
state there is no thought.
We're actually restoring
ourselves by sleeping,
by entering into this
thoughtless awareness, which
when you experience
it consciously,
is actually sublime.
You feel completely
connected to everything,
as though everything is part of
your own body, heart, and mind.
>>DAVID: Are you saying that
people show the delta wave
on the EKG when they're in that
state of awareness consciously?
>>ANDREWS: As children, and
as we grow into adulthood,
we spend less time there
except for yogis and people
that are meditators.
And they can actually go into
predominant delta and theta
brain wave dominance during
waking consciousness .
It was said that Einstein,
with his eyes open,
was in dominant theta,
which is a very deep state.
It's actually below
thinking or imaging.
And so you're in this state
of undivided attention
where you feel undivided
from everyone and everything.
And it allows you to
access a much more
comprehensive and complex
level of information.
That's what made
him such a genius.
And so the whole society
can actually access this.
This is one of the
things that I've
been working on, global
consciousness, how
we can collectively be
enlightened as a species,
and how nature has
actually designed
us to share undivided
attention, which is
the same as unconditional love.
When you hold a child or
your lover to your heart
and you feel together, you sense
what you're feeling together.
It feels like
unconditional, eternal love.
You want to be in that sense of
belonging as one heart, body,
and mind.
And you can easily do that
by just paying attention
together and noticing that
your attention and my attention
are actually always undivided.
We just weren't
noticing it because we
were giving our
attention to thoughts
and things and activities
almost exclusively as a habit.
And that habit is an
addictive formation.
And as long as we're paying
attention slideshow style
to things and thoughts
and activities,
we feel separate from each
other and from our greater self.
And that shows up in
the brain wave analysis
when we do sleep analysis.
And we see that even adults
who don't sleep well,
they hardly get into deep
theta or much less delta,
and they stay in high alpha
or even in beta conscious.
They don't really
sleep very much,
and so they become exhausted
and burn out very quickly.
And our society is really
suffering from that.
>>DAVID: There is an intrinsic
narcissism in everyone.
And some of us have more of it
and some of us have less of it.
It appears to come from
frustrated impulses
in childhood.
We talked about
birth trauma before.
But I want to talk again about--
let's explore that
moment in childhood
when you first
start hearing "no,"
because it might be awhile.
Would you agree that in
the early early childhood
when you're just a baby,
and they're giving you
a little yellow rattle,
that it's all bliss
and it's all happiness.
And then at some point,
there's that decisive moment
when you want something
and you're told no,
and it's like your whole
world just falls apart.
>>ANDREWS: When we're
infants, I mean,
we feel like we are our
parents, we are the world.
There's no divisions.
And that unity is
extremely beautiful.
We're basking in this
totally protected place where
we can experience
that indivisible being
that we actually are.
And there's such a thing
as healthy narcissism.
And if we don't get our
healthy narcissistic needs met
as children, then later on we
have these unhealthy narcissism
where we're trying to get the
unconditional love, trying
to get the promise of consumer
culture for ourselves,
to have the best car, the best
place, and the greatest house
and everything else, and the
best friends, 5,000 friends
on Facebook or whatever.
You know, the sign that
we've made it or whatever.
And it's all empty, really.
Momentarily we feel good, but
actually it doesn't pan out.
>>DAVID: An unawakened
person is going
to say, well, there's no
value in anybody being afraid.
The power elite wouldn't
want us to be afraid
because then we're going
to spend more time at work.
We're going to pay
our taxes instead
of not paying our taxes.
If we're afraid, we're going
to worry about our money,
we're not going to pay taxes.
So why wouldn't we be better off
for these corrupt power elite
if we were not in fear?
Why does it seem like they
want us to be in fear?
What benefit do they
get out of that.?
>>ANDREWS: Well,
there are many ways
to look at that that all
important, I would say.
For example, when we're in
the presence of violence
but it's not being
done upon us, we
are doused with
these endorphins,
which are 10,000 times
as powerful as morphine.
It's like getting a heroin fix.
>>DAVID: 10,000 times?
>>ANDREWS: Yes, 10,000 times.
>>DAVID: Say that again.
So we're seeing violence
in front of us--
>>ANDREWS: Right, on the TV.
>>DAVID: And we're
getting high from that?
10,000 times more than heroin?
>>ANDREWS: That's right.
Well, than--
>>DAVID: Morphine, which
is a heroin derivative--
>>ANDREWS: Morphine, yes.
>>DAVID: An opiate.
>>ANDREWS: Yeah.
>>DAVID: Where did
this come from?
>>ANDREWS: Well, we get
very small amounts of it
that are created by
our bodies in order
to numb us so that we can
deal with the fear better.
And so we get--
>>DAVID: I'm sorry.
Just tell me where
did you hear this?
Is this a scientific study?
Because I know with
you it's all science.
>>ANDREWS: Oh, yes.
This is common
medical knowledge.
So you don't have to have
a lot of something that
is 10,000 times as
powerful as morphine
in order to tranquilize
the body and numb it.
>>DAVID: You're
saying gram for gram,
this neurochemical is 10,000
times more potent than morphine
in the brain, its existence
in the brain drop for drop.
>>ANDREWS: Neurologically,
the docking sites in the cell
structure of the body.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>ANDREWS: There's opiate
receptors, so-called.
This is generic throughout
the whole body and heart.
It's very general.
>>DAVID: So we're watching a
scary movie or a movie that
has violence in it.
We see graphic violence.
And that's one of the
things here at Gaiam
is we do not have violent
programming on the network
at all.
We're not going to
take in a movie that's
got graphic violence, period.
But let's say that
you are watching that,
even if it's a movie.
You're saying, we're getting
high from that similar
to drugs.
>>ANDREWS: Well, we
get the same thing
from eating a meat
and potatoes diet.
The two starch and
protein cancel out
with the type of
digestive juices
that that would otherwise
help them to be assimilated.
And it drugs us.
So it's like having a couple of
beers or something like that.
We're actually-- by being
exposed to gratuitous violence
in the media and
everywhere we look--
being told that there's all
these terrible things going on
in the world.
And "The Iron Mountain
Report," these top people
came up with the idea of
can we live without war?
And they said, no, you've
got to keep making wars
so people are traumatized.
That's part of the
Tavistock Institute studies.
They say it's
operant conditioning.
So you have wars.
People are traumatized.
They shut down.
And they just think
about, I just want peace.
So I think about how for me and
my family-- or of nobody else,
just me--
I want peace.
I want to not have to deal
with all this conflict
and terror and everything else.
So by creating fear
systematically,
the society is essentially
addicted to heroin,
if you will.
So now if you expose somebody--
like if violence is
being done to one of us,
we're doused with
what's called naloxone.
We become paralyzed
with fear and terror.
>>DAVID: If it's being
done to us, instead
of if we're seeing it.
>>ANDREWS: Right.
>>ANDREWS: And so of course--
>>DAVID: And naloxone
is a neurotransmitter?
It's part of our body?
>>ANDREWS: It's another
essential neurotransmitter.
And it's like when a cat
gets a mouse finally,
and the mouse freezes up.
It's a predator
prey thing, often.
Or we have terrible hiking
or mountaineering accident
or something like that.
Otherwise we would be
in tremendous pain,
but instead we get doused
with these neurochemicals,
and we can, in this case,
have more endorphins
and feel no pain so that
we can have the strength
to get ourselves out
of that situation.
But if you're going to be eaten
alive, like a gazelle has been
captured by a lion or
something like that,
it's natural to want
to numb the body
in that terror and
that paralysis,
and naloxone serves
that purpose also.
>>DAVID: So this is where
the concept of animals
that are being slaughtered
by another animal
are in sort of an ecstatic
state as it happens.
They get in almost like
a psychedelic trance.
>>ANDREWS: Exactly.
Yes.
>>DAVID: And the notion
I've used in my show,
Wisdom Teachings, of the
snake, that it actually--
that the mouse ultimately
is hypnotized by the fear
to such a degree that it just
drops over and it just lets
the snake eat it, and it doesn't
appear to be feeling pain
once that happens.
>>ANDREWS: And there are
many dimensions of that.
Nature photographers have
seen fish actually leap
into the talons of
eagles and hawks.
>>DAVID: Really?
>>ANDREWS: Imagine if you've
been swimming around as a fish
and you're really
not afraid of death.
You don't really
know what it is.
You haven't remembered
that maybe you've
been living and dying as
a fish for many lifetimes.
Who knows?
But you see this
thing flying around
above the surface of the
water, you figure, hey,
if I let that thing
eat me, maybe I
could become an eagle too.
I mean, who knows?
People talk about
coral, the psychology
of coral in the ocean that
way, that every generation
dies and becomes the foundation
for the next generation.
And so death and birth, that's
the myth of the Phoenix,
for she is herself
and not herself
having gained eternal life
by the blessing of death.
For she is her own father
and mother and heir, sister,
and brother.
And so we have this
transpersonal level where we're
really not separate entities.
And by living and dying, and
being consumed by nature,
the universe is actually
giving birth to us
and then it's killing us.
Our nervous systems
wear out and we die back
into the substrate
from which we arose.
>>DAVID: Why do you think people
are so distraught about death?
It's interesting to note
that if a group of people
die in a creative way,
like an airplane crash,
that captures our attention.
But people are dying in
automobile crashes all the time
and that number is much greater.
Why do you think we're
drawn to creative deaths?
so afraid of death?
Why is it so
objectionable to us?
>>ANDREWS: Well, if
we're in this context
that we've been talking about
in the last series, this context
of pure consciousness that is
imageless, it doesn't suffer.
It's constant.
It's the one thing
that seems to persist.
And in my near death
experience at age four,
I existed without a
body, heart, or mind.
My human, mortal body,
heart, and mind fell away,
and I was just
formless consciousness,
objectless consciousness.
>>DAVID: I want to talk to
you about that a lot more.
>>ANDREWS: And so
what I experienced,
and many thousands of
other children and adults
have experienced now--
millions of people
have reported-- there is
this sense that death is not
the end, that instead death
is formless consciousness.
It's just where all the
objects and contentiousness
of life, all the
imagination that we
have identified with as who we
are and what we're here about--
all of that just falls away, and
there's this constant context
which cannot die.
They say it's called
deathless consciousness.
And we're able to share
that consciousness while
in these bodies in a completely
joyful and liberated way
by just noticing it.
And your 50 trillion
cells and mine,
when they notice it
together, or of you've
got a group of
eight to 50 people
noticing that, we're each
leveraged into that magnitude
of multiple
consciousnesses noticing
this essential nature
of consciousness itself
that we all are made out of.
And we are lifted
into the consciousness
of that multiples of this
one mortal consciousness
that we're used to
as 50 trillion cells.
So we're 100
trillion cells here.
And by really paying attention,
and people paying attention
to us in the viewing
audience, they're
linking up with our
100 trillion cells
with their 50 trillion cells.
And so there are 150 trillion
cells with us right now,
and there's a sense
of being lifted
into a higher intelligence,
more heightened level
of sensitivity.
And that's why people
are watching us,
in a sense, because there's more
wisdom, more insightfulness,
more feeling, more
to be known here
in our combined consciousness.
>>DAVID: Sperry, I
want to thank you.
We'll have another episode
coming up right away here.
>>ANDREWS: Wonderful.
Thank you, David.
[THEME MUSIC]